---
title: 'Spending on 70:20:10'
author: Mark Berthelemy
excerpt: |
    What does it mean practically to be operating 70:20:10?
layout: post
permalink: /2018/01/01/spending-on-70-20-10
tags:
  - Learning
  - Business
thumb: /post-images/2018/01/70_20_10-thumb.png
banner: /post-images/2018/01/70_20_10-banner.png
alt: 70:20:10 circles
img-credit: Wyver Solutions
---
Many people have written about the 70:20:10 reference model for learning & development. I won't try to replicate their thinking here.

What I will say is that I see a lot of organisations who state that 70:20:10 is the model they are working to. Yet often they are still to match their stated intentions with financial resources in the same proportion.

To match spending with aspiration would require a level of change within many L&D departments that is more than just tweaking around the edges. It would be truly transformative.

Let's take a quick look at the implications...

#### 70%

Imagine an organisation where 70% of the L&D budget is spent on working with the rest of the business to improve performance. That would be the entire focus. It would require L&D to act as performance consultants - asking hard questions, where the answer is unlikely to be a course... More often than not, it may be a change to processes and how those processes are supported.

I tend to promote the Lean approach for performance improvement, but there are others. A lean L&D team would be taking the lead in coaching the business to:

- understanding the value stream
- identifying where "waste" is occurring
- reducing waste (including by developing easily accessible job aids if necessary)
- improving the flow along the value stream
- putting in place continuous improvement systems

#### 20%

In my imaginary organisation, let's spend 20% of the L&D budget on developing managers (at all levels) by helping them to improve their capabilities in:

- one-to-ones
- feedback
- coaching
- delegation

(This is the <a href="https://www.manager-tools.com/manager-tools-basics" target="_blank"><em>Manager Tools</em> Trinity</a> - a resource that I've not yet seen bettered for management development - and it's free!)

#### 10%

The rest of the budget, just 10%, goes towards designing, building, delivering or procuring courses - whether self-study or led, face-to-face or online - to help individuals progress beyond their current jobs.
